In this lecture, we will explore a different option for creating variables called constants.
The idea of a constant is simple.
They are variables that cannot be updated after they've been initialized.
JavaScript will throw an error at us if we change a constant.
First, let's look at how we can update a regular variable.
In my browser, I have the snippets section to open with the example from the previous lecture.
A variable can be updated by typing the name of the variable, followed by an equal sign character and
the new value.
For example, let's update the my name variable to Jane.
It's not required to add delete keyword.
This keyword is only necessary during initialization.
Let's try running the script.
The alert box will display the new value of the my name variable since we're updating it before running
the alert function.
Next, let's try switching our variable to a constant.
Creating a constant is similar to creating a regular variable.
Instead of using the lead keyword, we can replace this keyword with the const keyword.
Let's try rerunning the script this time.
Things won't go as planned.
An alert box will never appear in the console.
An error message gets thrown.
The error message tells us that we're attempting to update a constant.
Let's remove the update from our scripts.
After making that change, you may need to refresh the page for the update to be applied.
I prefer pressing control five to forcefully refresh the page.
These scripts should have persisted across the page.
Reload.
Let's try running it again.
This time the alert box appears on the page.
Perfect.
We've got a functioning script.
In a nutshell.
Constants are a great way to create a variable without worrying about it changing.
Before ending the lecture.
There is another solution for creating a variable.
Variables can be created with the var keyword before the year 2015.
The var keyword was the only solution for creating variables.
The cost and let keywords were introduced a decade later.
Developers don't use the var keyword anymore.
It's strongly recommended to stick to the other keywords.
I wanted to mention this keyword in case you come across it in the wild.
It's just another way to create a variable that is considered outdated.